AWS Lambda plugin documentation (#8655)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/aws-lambda.md

---
layout: default

> title: aws_lambda

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: AWS Lambda integration for Data Prepper
```

parent: Processors
grand_parent: Pipelines
nav_order: 10
---

> # AWS Lambda Processor and Sink for Data Prepper

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# AWS Lambda integration for Data Prepper
```

> This document provides the configuration details and usage instructions for integrating AWS Lambda with Data Prepper, both as a processor and as a sink.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AWS Lambda integration allows developers to use serverless computing capabilities within their Data Prepper pipelines for flexible event processing and data routing.
```

---
layout: default
title: AWS Lambda integration for Data Prepper
parent: Processors
grand_parent: Pipelines
nav_order: 10
---

# AWS Lambda integration for Data Prepper

The AWS Lambda integration allows developers to use serverless computing capabilities within their Data Prepper pipelines for flexible event processing and data routing.

## AWS Lambda processor configuration

> The `aws_lambda processor` enables invocation of an AWS Lambda function within your Data Prepper pipeline to process events. It supports both synchronous or asynchronous invocations based on your use case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `aws_lambda processor` enables invocation of an AWS Lambda function within your Data Prepper pipeline to process events. It supports both synchronous and asynchronous invocations based on your use case.
```

## Configuration fields

> You can configure the processor using the following configuration options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure the processor using the following configuration options.
```

Field                | Type    | Required | Description                                                                 
-------------------- | ------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

> `function_name`      | String  | Required | Name of the AWS Lambda function to invoke.                               

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`function_name`      | String  | Required | The name of the AWS Lambda function to invoke.                               
```

> `invocation_type`    | String  | Required | Specifies the invocation type; either `request-response` or `event`. Default is `request-response`.           

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`invocation_type`    | String  | Required | Specifies the invocation type, either `request-response` or `event`. Default is `request-response`.           
```

> `aws.region`         | String  | Required | AWS Region in which the Lambda function is located.                         

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`aws.region`         | String  | Required | The AWS Region in which the Lambda function is located.                         
```

> `aws.sts_role_arn`   | String  | Optional | ARN of the role to assume before invoking the Lambda function.               

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`aws.sts_role_arn`   | String  | Optional | The Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the role to assume before invoking the Lambda function.               
```

> `max_retries`        | Integer | Optional | Maximum number of retries for failed invocations. Default is `3`.             

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`max_retries`        | Integer | Optional | The maximum number of retries for failed invocations. Default is `3`.             
```

> `batch`              | Object  | Optional | Batch settings for the Lambda invocations. Default is `key_name = "events"`. Default threshold is `event_count=100`, `maximum_size="5mb"`, and `event_collect_timeout = 10s`.                            

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`batch`              | Object  | Optional | The batch settings for the Lambda invocations. Default is `key_name = "events"`. Default threshold is `event_count=100`, `maximum_size="5mb"`, and `event_collect_timeout = 10s`.                            
```

> `lambda_when`        | String  | Optional | Conditional expression to determine when to invoke the Lambda processor.     

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`lambda_when`        | String  | Optional | A conditional expression that determines when to invoke the Lambda processor.     
```

> `response_codec`     | Object  | Optional | Codec configuration for parsing Lambda responses. Default is `json`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`response_codec`     | Object  | Optional |  A codec configuration for parsing Lambda responses. Default is `json`.
```

> `tags_on_match_failure` | List | Optional | List of tags to add to events when Lambda matching fails or encounters an unexpected error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`tags_on_match_failure` | List | Optional |  A list of tags to add to events when Lambda matching fails or encounters an unexpected error.
```

`sdk_timeout`        | Duration| Optional | Configures the SDK's client connection timeout period. Default is `60s`. 
`response_events_match` | Boolean | Optional | Specifies how Data Prepper interprets and processes Lambda function responses. Default is `false`.

#### Example configuration

```
processors:
  - aws_lambda:
      function_name: "my-lambda-function"
      invocation_type: "request-response"
      response_events_match: false
      aws:
        region: "us-east-1"
        sts_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/my-lambda-role"
      max_retries: 3
      batch:
        key_name: "events"
        threshold:
          event_count: 100
          maximum_size: "5mb"
          event_collect_timeout: PT10S
      lambda_when: "event['status'] == 'process'"

```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Usage

> The processor supports the following innovation types:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The processor supports the following invocation types:
```

> - `request-response`: Processor waits for Lambda function completion before proceeding.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `request-response`: The processor waits for Lambda function completion before proceeding.
```

> - `event`: Function is triggered asynchronously without waiting for a response.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `event`: The function is triggered asynchronously without waiting for a response.
```

> - `Batching`: When enabled, events are aggregated and sent in bulk to optimize Lambda invocations. Batch thresholds control event count, size limit, and timeout.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `Batching`: When enabled, events are aggregated and sent in bulk to optimize Lambda invocations. Batch thresholds control the event count, size limit, and timeout.
```

> - `Codec`: JSON is is used for both request and response codecs. Lambda must return JSON array outputs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `Codec`: JSON is used for both request and response codecs. Lambda must return JSON array outputs.
```

- `tags_on_match_failure`: Custom tags can be applied to events when Lambda processing fails or encounters unexpected issues.

## Behavior

> When configured for batching, the AWS Lambda processor groups multiple events into a single request. This grouping is governed by batch thresholds, which can be based on event count, size limit, or timeout. The processor then sends the entire batch to the Lambda function as a single payload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When configured for batching, the AWS Lambda processor groups multiple events into a single request. This grouping is governed by batch thresholds, which can be based on the event count, size limit, or timeout. The processor then sends the entire batch to the Lambda function as a single payload.
```

## Lambda response handling

The `response_events_match` setting defines how Data Prepper handles the relationship between batch events sent to Lambda and the response received:

> - `true`: Lambda returns a JSON array with results for each batched event. Data Prepper maps this array back to its corresponding original event. , ensuring that each event in the batch gets the corresponding part of the response from the array.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `true`: Lambda returns a JSON array with results for each batched event. Data Prepper maps this array back to its corresponding original event, ensuring that each event in the batch gets the corresponding part of the response from the array.
```

> - `false`: Lambda returns one or multiple events for the entire batch. Response events are not correlated with the original events. Original event metadata is not preserved in the response events. For example, when `response_events_match` is set to `true`, the Lambda function is expected to return an equal number of response events as the orignal requests, maintaining the original order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `false`: Lambda returns one or more events for the entire batch. Response events are not correlated with the original events. Original event metadata is not preserved in the response events. For example, when `response_events_match` is set to `true`, the Lambda function is expected to return the same number of response events as the number of original requests, maintaining the original order.
```

## Limitations

Note the following limitations:

> - Payload limitation: 6MB payload limit

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Payload limitation: 6 MB payload limit
```

- Response codec: JSON-only codec support

## Integration testing

Integration tests for this plugin are executed separately from the main Data Prepper build process. Use the following Gradle command to run these tests:

```
./gradlew :data-prepper-plugins:aws-lambda:integrationTest -Dtests.processor.lambda.region="us-east-1" -Dtests.processor.lambda.functionName="lambda_test_function"  -Dtests.processor.lambda.sts_role_arn="arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/dataprepper-role
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## AWS Lambda sink

> You can configure the sink using the following configuration options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure the sink using the following configuration options.
```

Field             | Type    | Required | Description                                                                 
----------------- | ------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

> `function_name`   | String  | Required | Name of the AWS Lambda function to invoke.                               

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`function_name`   | String  | Required | The name of the AWS Lambda function to invoke.                               
```

`invocation_type` | String  | Optional | Specifies the invocation type. Default is `event`.             

> `aws.region`      | String  | Required | AWS Region in which the Lambda function is located.                         

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`aws.region`      | String  | Required | The AWS Region in which the Lambda function is located.                         
```

> `aws.sts_role_arn`| String  | Optional | ARN of the role to assume before invoking the Lambda function.               

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`aws.sts_role_arn`| String  | Optional | The ARN of the role to assume before invoking the Lambda function.               
```

> `max_retries`     | Integer | Optional | Maximum number of retries for failed invocations. Default is `3`.             

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`max_retries`     | Integer | Optional | The maximum number of retries for failed invocations. Default is `3`.             
```

> `batch`           | Object  | Optional | Batch settings for the Lambda invocations. Default is `key_name = "events"`. Default threshold is `event_count=100`, `maximum_size="5mb"`, and `event_collect_timeout = 10s`.                              

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`batch`           | Object  | Optional | The batch settings for the Lambda invocations. Default is `key_name = "events"`. Default threshold is `event_count=100`, `maximum_size="5mb"`, and `event_collect_timeout = 10s`.                              
```

> `lambda_when`     | String  | Optional | Conditional expression to determine when to invoke the Lambda processor.          

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`lambda_when`     | String  | Optional | A conditional expression that determines when to invoke the Lambda processor.          
```

> `dlq`             | Object  | Optional | Dead-letter queue (DLQ) configuration for failed invocations.                

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`dlq`             | Object  | Optional | A dead-letter queue (DLQ) configuration for failed invocations.                
```

#### Example configuration

```
sink:
  - aws_lambda:
      function_name: "my-lambda-sink"
      invocation_type: "event"
      aws:
        region: "us-west-2"
        sts_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/my-lambda-sink-role"
      max_retries: 5
      batch:
        key_name: "events"
        threshold:
          event_count: 50
          maximum_size: "3mb"
          event_collect_timeout: PT5S
      lambda_when: "event['type'] == 'log'"
      dlq:
        region: "us-east-1"
        sts_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/my-sqs-role"
        bucket: "<<your-dlq-bucket-name>>"
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Usage

> The sink supports the following innovation types:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The sink supports the following invocation types:
```

> - `event`: Function is triggered asynchronously without waiting for a response.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `event`: The function is triggered asynchronously without waiting for a response.
```

- `request-response`: Not supported for sink operations.
- `Batching`: When enabled, events are aggregated and sent in bulk to optimize Lambda invocations. Default is `enabled`.

> - `DLQ`: Setup available for routing and precessing events that persistently fail Lamba invocations after multiple retry attempts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `DLQ`:  A setup available for routing and processing events that persistently fail Lambda invocations after multiple retry attempts.
```

## Advanced configurations

> The AWS Lambda processor and sink provide the following advanced options for secure function and performance optimization: 

Reviewer 2: "secure function" => "security"?

> The AWS Lambda processor and sink provide the following advanced options for secure function and performance optimization: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AWS Lambda processor and sink provide the following advanced options for security and performance optimization: 
```

> - IAM role assumption: Processor and sink support assuming the specified IAM role `aws.sts_role_arn` before Lambda invocation. This enhances secure handling by providing access control to AWS resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) role assumption: The processor and sink support assuming the specified IAM role `aws.sts_role_arn` before Lambda invocation. This enhances secure handling by providing access control to AWS resources.
```

- Concurrency management: When using the `event` invocation type, consider Lambda concurrency limits to avoid throttling.

> For further details on AWS Lambda integration with Data Prepper, see [AWS Lambda Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about AWS Lambda integration with Data Prepper, see the [AWS Lambda documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda).
```

> For more information about AWS Lambda integration with Data Prepper, see the [AWS Lambda documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about AWS Lambda integration with Data Prepper, see the [AWS Lambda Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda).
```
